h2. Running Dradis inside Metasploit's Cygwin

After reading this guide, you will be able to:

* Run Dradis inside your existing Metasploit Cygwin installation.
* Keep your Dradis installation updated with the latest committed to the repo.

endprologue.

If you already have <a href="http://www.metasploit.com">Metasploit</a> installed in your Windows environment, adding Dradis to it is quite easy.

h3. Install the current development branch

For this tutorial, we are going to use the latest version from Dradis' <a href="https://github.com/dradis/dradisframework">git</a> repository. 

Metasploit's Cygwin environment already comes with all the dependencies needed to run Dradis, so getting it up and running will be very easy.

You need to open the Cygwin shell and type a few instructions. It can be found in <code>C:\Program Files\Metasploit\Framework3\shell.bat</code>:

<blockquote>
$ cd /<br/>
$ mkdir dradis-git<br/>
$ cd dradis-git/<br />
$ git clone https://github.com/dradis/dradisframework.git server<br/>
</blockquote>

Then download the verify, reset and start scripts to your dradis-git/ folder:

<blockquote>
$ wget https://raw.github.com/dradis/meta/master/verify.sh<br/>
$ wget https://raw.github.com/dradis/meta/master/reset.sh<br/>
$ wget https://raw.github.com/dradis/meta/master/start.sh<br/>
$ chmod +x *.sh<br/>
$ ./verify.sh<br/>
// follow instructions / install dependencies<br/>
$ ./reset.sh
</blockquote>

Once the environment is ready, you can start the server with:

<blockquote>
$ ./start.sh
</blockquote>

To keep your Dradis install up to date it is enough to run <code>git pull</code> every now and then inside the <code>server/</code> folder.</p>

h3. Installing a released version of Dradis

If instead of the latest development <code>master</code> you would rather use one of the released versions, go to the <a href="http://dradisframework.org/download.html">Download</a> page, get the latest package and uncompress it inside your Metasploit's root directory and run:

<blockquote>
$ ./verify.sh<br/>
$ ./reset.sh<br/> 
$ ./start.sh
</blockquote>