h2. Installing Dradis on Ubuntu

This guide covers how to get the Dradis Framework up and running in Ubuntu.

endprologue.

h3. Running on Ubuntu

We are going to assume that either Ubuntu is your base OS or you are preparing an Ubuntu-base virtual machine.

If the latter going for 10 GB of disk and 2 GB of RAM should do the trick. You can download Ubuntu from:

"http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download":http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download

A tutorial on how to install the base OS falls out of the scope of this guide, we will leave you a few minutes to get your new OS up and running.


h3. Prerequisites: *curl* and *git*

Before we begin, there are a couple of packages that we will need:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ sudo apt-get install curl git
</shell>


h3. Installing Ruby 1.9.3

We are going to install Ruby 1.9.3 using "RVM":http://beginrescueend.com/. This has the benefit of keeping everything under your `~/.rvm/` folder:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ bash -s stable < <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm/master/binscripts/rvm-installer)
etd@host:~$ source ~/.profile
etd@host:~$ rvm -v
</shell>

Once RVM is up and running we need to get a couple of libraries that will be required by the Ruby installation:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ for package in zlib openssl libxslt libxml2; do rvm pkg install $package; done
</shell>

And finally the Ruby 1.9.3 runtime:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ rvm install 1.9.3
etd@host:~$ rvm 1.9.3 --default
etd@host:~$ ruby -v
</shell>

There is an additional step that it's not required but that will shorten the time required to install ruby gems:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ echo "gem: --no-rdoc --no-ri" > ~/.gemrc
</shell>

This tells RubyGems to not generate documentation for every library it installs.

Finally, we just need to install the "Bundler":http://gembundler.com/ gem, all other Ruby gems will be installed using Bundler:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ gem install bundler
etd@host:~$ bundle -v
</shell>


h3. Download Dradis

We are going to work with the Git version of Dradis which is stable but contains the latest and greatest features:

<shell>
etd@host:~$ mkdir dradis-git
etd@host:~$ cd dradis-git/
etd@host:~/dradis-git$ git clone https://github.com/dradis/dradisframework.git server
etd@host:~/dradis-git$ for file in verify reset start; do curl -O https://raw.github.com/dradis/meta/master/$file.sh; done
etd@host:~/dradis-git$ chmod +x *.sh
</shell>

To make sure it everything is as it should, double check the contents of the directory:

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis-git$ ls -l
total 32
-rwxr-xr-x   1 etd  staff   847 Feb 19 14:26 reset.sh*
drwxr-xr-x  26 etd  staff   884 Feb 19 14:02 server/
-rwxr-xr-x   1 etd  staff   407 Feb 19 14:26 start.sh*
-rwxr-xr-x   1 etd  staff  6775 Feb 19 14:26 verify.sh*
</shell>

We are going to create a _gemset_ to store all the Ruby gems that Dradis requires in a self-contained package. This means that the libraries won't affect any other apps you have installed. Also if you decide to remove Dradis, you can delete this _gemset_ and cleanup the system.

To activate the _gemset_ just enter the `server/` directory and answer **yes** when RVM asks:

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis-git$ cd server/
Do you wish to trust this .rvmrc file? (/home/etd/dradis-git/server/.rvmrc)
y[es], n[o], v[iew], c[ancel]> y
Using /Users/etd/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.3-p125 with gemset dradis
etd@host:~/dradis-git/server$ cd ..
</shell>

Once you have your copy of the repo, we need to install a few Ruby dependencies:


h3. Preparing Dradis

Before you can start the server you need to run *./reset.sh* this will prepare the config files for first use and will re-generate the repository database. 

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git$ ./reset.sh
Some Ruby gems are missing, do you want to install them now? [y] y
</shell>

This will install the libraries that are required to run Dradis. Once that's is done, we need to run the script again:

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git$ ./reset.sh
The config file [config/database.yml.template] was found not to be ready to use.
Do you want to initialize it? [y]es | [N]o | initialize [a]ll
a
</shell>

If you ever want to clear your repository (e.g. a new project begins), re-runing the command above will do the trick.

The final step is to make sure all the assets (i.e. images, JavaScripts, CSS, etc.) that Dradis needs are precompiled to ensure they load at maximum speed:

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git$ cd server/
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git/server$ RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake assets:precompile
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git/server$ cd ../
</shell>


h3. Running Dradis

Once everything is ready, you can run the server with:

<shell>
etd@host:~/dradis/dradis-git$ ./start.sh
</shell>

You are ready to browse: "https://127.0.0.1:3004/":https://127.0.0.1:3004/

The script also accepts the *-h* flag to help you with additional arguments to customize the binding address and port number.

